[Music]
personality is best understood as a
complex set of adaptations we develop
ways of getting our psychological needs
met and ways of protecting ourselves
from harm many of these adaptations are
made in early childhood and they're
based on the intersection between
genetics and experience we end up with
one or more dominant personality Styles
these are characteristic ways of
thinking feeling perceiving and behaving
that are defined by core conflicts and
Central beliefs that each of us has
about ourselves and about other people
the narcissistic personality style
involves adaptations around the issue of
self-esteem to defend against
self-esteem collapse defenses are
utilized that seek self-esteem
inflation these defensive adaptations
protect the self and attempt to
compensate for internal self-esteem
resources that are otherwise lacking the
effectiveness of these defenses mostly
depends on the level of dysfunction in
the personality individuals on the
healthier end of the narcissistic
Spectrum tend to utilize flexible
defenses that help them resolve
conflicts while increasing social
support individuals at the more severe
end tend to use defenses that are
disruptive to their daily lives damaging
to their relationships and even ones
that distort reality all of this is tied
to a person's developmental maturity and
the severity of the disturbances that
are caused by the central conflict
around self-esteem as someone moves up
the spectrum of Developmental maturity
their use of problematic defenses goes
down and this is true for any
personality style not just narcissistic
the more integrated stable and defined
our self-image the less we need to rely
on reality distorting boundary blurring
or truth obfuscating
defenses this development spectrum is
defined by several distinct levels of
Personality organization Each of which
contain a developmental challenge that
must be successfully negotiated to move
to the next level the first challenge is
learning to tolerate reality